---
layout: post
title: "Productivity Dysmorphia Setting In"
date: 2025-10-28 22:00:00 -0500
categories: [post, thoughts]
---
> The pursuit of productivity spurs us to do more while robbing us of the ability to savor any success we might encounter along the way.

Back in 2005, I graduated college and really didn't know what to do with my life. Even with a Computer Science Degree, I didn't know what I could do or what I liked doing with it but I did know I liked computers that I wanted to do *something*. My parents told me to try graduate school to continue my education but also work on the side. I was fortunate that they lived near a university named *Oakland University* in Rochester, MI to keep that going. In the process, I found that I they have a *Helpdesk* for students to help with IT related issues around campus. This was a good opportunity for me to work and study at the same time. It was also a way for me to keep practicing on technology and see what I can do after graduate school. During that time, I was able to work with some amazing people and this is were I found my passion for *Linux*.

In 2008, I was going to be graduating Oakland University but they were also losing out on some Linux Administrators that were moving on to bigger, better things. I was asked by the CTO at the time to see if I was interested in a 6 month contract like position to help them with Linux related servers and upkeep and after the 6 months, it could become a full time position. I accepted and this was my time to shine but also learn something I was *not totally* familiar with. I studied and read as much as I could about Linux and also installed *Ubuntu* on my Dell XPS laptop to give myself more exposure to the OS and it soon when to installing *Arch Linux* for more headache but also learning that helped me grow so much. I was feeling good with my work and productivity for sure as a person just learning but grasping it fully and quickly. I was able to work with OU for almost 5 years and I thought I could do more. Later in 2012, I was hit up by Rackspace for a job opportunity to move to Texas and have a way to keep growing my craft and possibly just do *more* in my mind. I accepted and was moving down to Texas to start my new job but little did I know, this move would start to mess with my mind more negatively then positively.

Being at Rackspace was awesome as I was able to talk with even more people that loved Linux and discuss more Linux stuff that I could at the university but as that was going on, I was feeling a bit more *inadequate* with my position and wanted to do more and learn more from those who were even smarter then me. I wanted to be in the discussions and help with the harder projects or create something that would become a tool/thing to be used by the company or a group to keep pursuing forward. I felt stuck at times since where I was didn't allow me to do those kinds of things but something in my head was holding me back. I didn't know what it was called back then but I believe I was having something called *productivity dysmorphia* that was holding me back:

> Productivity dysmorphia is a condition characterized by an excessive and unrealistic focus on productivity, leading to feelings of inadequacy, guilt, and anxiety.

I think a little *impostor syndrome* sprinkled in there from time to time but mostly *productivity dysmorphia* pushing me away for exploring and doing more. I was still doing my job with out any issues but I did feel like I could have done more outside of work to learn to contribute more not just to Rackspace but to the Linux community as a whole. I worked with Rackspace for 10-ish years and loved working and learning from some awesome people that helped me grow into a better version of me today but now I'm back in the university setting but for UTSA. I'm grateful for the job and making sure the university is up and running but I'm not just going to sit around and do the bare minimum. The *productivity dysmorphia* kicks in from time to time as the outside work to learn more about projects I'm interested in are frustrating and tiring when it doesn't work as expected but I'm trying to push forward and keep myself going even after failure.

I've been trying to find some books to read that might help me with understand myself and get better and these two are at the top of my list for sure:
- [The Right Kind of Wrong](https://a.co/d/0ULoxSd)
- [Empty Your Backpack: Unpack Your Beliefs, Take Consistent Action and Create a Life of Meaning](https://a.co/d/guKnizl)

I'm not cured by any means and I get frustrated/inadequate from time to time but things like this where I just share my thoughts and *hopefully* more Linux and tech related topics and contributing to projects that I care for can help me feel better about myself and those negative thoughts in my head that keep popping up from time to time.
